## Step 1

In JavaScript, a variable is a name that represents a **value**. You can think of it as a container that holds a specific piece of data. Variables can hold many types of data, such as: numbers, strings (text), booleans, and more. To create variables in JavaScript, first you need to **declare the variable.** In MakeCode, we use the the word **let** to declare the variable.  Then you need to   **give the variable a name.** 

When naming variables, you need to keep the following in mind.

 - Variables can only start with a **letter, a dollar sign ($) or an underscore (_).** 
 - Variables are **case sensitive** (ex: if you capitalize a letter, you must capitalize it every time you use that variable)
 - Variables can only have **numbers, letters, the dollar sign, and the underscore character.**
 - Your variable should be named something that **reflects what your variable represents.** 
 - JavaScript keywords **cannot** be used as a variable name. 

After giving the variable a name you must **assign a value to it using the “=” operator.**
For example:

    let playerage = 13

For our variable activities, we will have use the code **say(message)** to make the player say the message and it will appear on your screen. For example:

    let playerage = 13
    player.say(playerAge)

 In the area below, practice creating a variable for the number of lives a player starts with in our new pc game and assigning it a value of 5 and have the player say the number of lives to the console.

    enter code here

## Step 2

The variable you created above was an **number variable**.  A number variable is used to represent numeric values such as integers, decimals, and fractions. Number variables are a common type of data used in programming, especially for calculating numbers. To create an number variable in JavaScript, you assign a number to a variable name.
For example:

    let score = 0

You can perform various operations with number variables such as arithmetic operations, comparison operations, and more. Arithmetic operations include addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*), division (/), and modulus (/) (remainder).
For example:

    let score = 0
    let playerScore = 1
    let finalScore = score + playerScore
    player.say(finalScore)

In the space below, create a variable named gamePoint that starts with the value of 0, and create a variable called extraPoint with the value of 1. Then create a variable called finalScore that adds the gamePoint variable and extraPoint variable. Have the player say the finalScore.

    enter code here
  

## Step 3

Comparison operations include checking if one integer is **equal to** (==), **greater than** (>), **less than** (<), **greater than or equal to** (>=), or **less than or equal to** (<=) another integer. 
In JavaScript you can use comparison operators to perform these operations.  Run the code below to see an example. (Note:  The code uses a simple If statement to compare variables.  You will learn more about If statements in the next lesson.)

    let gameAge =  13
    let playerAge =  14
    if  (playerAge >= gameAge)  {
	    player.say("You can play")
	    }
    

 In the space below fill in the code to create a variable using the comparison operators of equal to, greater than, and less than that compares the scores of player1 (score of 7) and player2 (score of 5).  Have the player say the comparison operations using true or false statements.

    let = 
    let = 
    if () {
	    player.say()
	    }

## Step 4


In JavaScript, a string is a **sequence of characters enclosed in quotes** (either single or double quotes). Strings are a common type of data used in programming, especially for text-based applications.
 String Variables are a fundamental part of JavaScript programming, and understanding how to work with them is essential for many applications. 
 To create a string variable in JavaScript, you simply assign a string value to a variable name.
 For example:

    playerName = "Steve"
    player.say(playerName)

In the space below create a variable for playerName with your name as the string. Have the player say the playerName.

    enter code here

You can perform various operations on string variables, such as concatenation, slicing, and formatting. **Concatenation is the process of combining two or more strings into a single string.** In JavaScript, you can use the "+" operator to concatenate strings. Use the “+” operator and have the player say your first and last name.

    firstName = "Jennifer"
    lastName = "Brown"
    fullName = firstName + " " + lastName 
    player.say(fullName)

In the space below use a concatenation string and have the player say your first and last name using the + operator for the variable playerName.

    enter code here

    