## Step 1

In JavaScript, a string is a **sequence of characters enclosed in quotes** (either single or double quotes). Strings are a common type of data used in programming, especially for text-based applications.
 String Variables are a fundamental part of JavaScript programming, and understanding how to work with them is essential for many applications. 
 To create a string variable in JavaScript, you simply **assign a string value to a variable name.**
 For example:

    let playerName = "Steve"
    player.say(playerName)

Create a variable for playerName with your name as the string. Have the player say the playerName.

#### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript
playerName = "Jennifer"
player.say(playerName)

```

## Step 2

You can perform various operations on string variables, such as concatenation, slicing, and formatting. **Concatenation is the process of combining two or more strings into a single string.** In JavaScript, you can use the "+" operator to concatenate strings. Use the “+” operator and have the player say your first and last name. Run the code below to see how concatenation works. 
```template

    firstName = "Jennifer"
    lastName = "Brown"
    fullName = firstName + " " + lastName 
    player.say(fullName)
```

## Step 3

Use a concatenation string and have the player say your first and last name using the + operator for the variable playerName.

  #### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript
    firstName = "Jennifer"
    lastName = "Brown"
    fullName = firstName + " " + lastName 
    player.say(fullName)
```

## Step 4

Formatting strings in JavaScript means **creating a new string that includes variables, constants or expressions in a specific format.** This is often used to display information to the user in a more readable way, or to construct complex strings by combining different pieces of information.

In JavaScript, we can format strings using template literals. A template literal is a **string enclosed in backticks (  ) that can contain placeholders for variables, constants or expressions using the '${}' syntax.**
Look at the code below and predict what the player will say then run the code to check to see if your prediction was correct. 

```template
    let name = "John"
    let age = 16 
    let message = `My name is ${name} and I am ${age} years old.`  
    player.say(message)
```

## Step 5

You should have seen that the player said 'My name is John and I am 16 years old.'

Write code that uses the '${}' syntax and it formats a string that combines the variables of playerName and playerScore and has the player say the string you created. 

  #### ~ tutorialhint
```javascript
   let playerName = "Jennifer"
   let playerScore = 10
   let message = `My name is ${playerName} and my score is ${playerScore}.`  
   player.say(message)
   
```


## Step 6

A Boolean variable in JavaScript is a variable that can only hold one of two values: **'True' or 'False'.** These values are used to represent the logical concepts of true and false, respectively. Boolean Variables are often used in control statements such as 'if' statements, 'while' loops, and 'for' loops to **make decisions based on whether a condition is true or false.** 

For example, the following code used a Boolean variable 'is_raining' to decide whether or not to bring an umbrella. Run the code to see how it works. 
```template
    let is_raining =  true
    if  (is_raining)  {
	    player.say("It's raining. You should bring an umbrella.")
	}  else  {
		player.say("It's not raining. You don't need an umbrella.")
		}
```
Boolean variables can also be combined using logical operator such as 'and', 'or;, and 'not' to create more complex conditions. We will look at these down the line.

## Step 7

In the space below, we have started the code for you to create a Boolean variable that tests for sunlight.  Complete the code to say If sunny weather is true, the player will say 'What a nice day' else the player will say 'Let's stay inside today.'
```template
    let is_sunny =  
    if  ()  {
	    player.say("")
	}  else  {
		player.say("")
		}
```

## Step 8

Now that you have learned about variables, continue to the next NPC to practice using them in code. 
