## Step 1

In JavaScript, a variable is a name that represents a **value**. You can think of it as a container that holds a specific piece of data. Variables can hold many types of data, such as: numbers, strings (text), booleans, and more. To create variables in JavaScript, first you need to **declare the variable.** In MakeCode, we use the the word **let** to declare the variable.  Then you need to   **give the variable a name.** 

When naming variables, you need to keep the following in mind.

 - Variables can only start with a **letter, a dollar sign ($) or an underscore (_).** 
 - Variables are **case sensitive** (ex: if you capitalize a letter, you must capitalize it every time you use that variable)
 - Variables can only have **numbers, letters, the dollar sign, and the underscore character.**
 - Your variable should be named something that **reflects what your variable represents.** 
 - JavaScript keywords **cannot** be used as a variable name. 

After giving the variable a name you must **assign a value to it using the “=” operator.**
For example:

    let playerage = 13

For our variable activities, we will have use the code **say(message)** to make the player say the message and it will appear on your screen. Run the code below for an example. 
```template
    let playerage = 13
    player.say(playerAge)

```

## Step 2
Practice creating a variable for the number of lives a player starts with in our new pc game and assigning it a value of 5 and have the player say the number of lives.

       
#### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript

let gameLives = 5
player.say(gameLives)

```

## Step 3

The variable you created above was an **number variable**.  A number variable is used to represent numeric values such as integers, decimals, and fractions. Number variables are a common type of data used in programming, especially for calculating numbers. To create an number variable in JavaScript, you assign a number to a variable name.
For example:

    let score = 0

You can perform various operations with number variables such as arithmetic operations, comparison operations, and more. **Arithmetic operations include addition (+), subtraction (-), multiplication (*), division (/), and modulus (/) (remainder).**
Run the code below to see how it works. 
```template
    let score = 0
    let playerScore = 1
    let finalScore = score + playerScore
    player.say(finalScore)
```

## Step 4
Create a variable named gamePoint that starts with the value of 0, and create a variable called extraPoint with the value of 1. Then create a variable called finalScore that adds the gamePoint variable and extraPoint variable. Have the player say the finalScore.

  #### ~ tutorialhint

```javascript
  let gamePoint = 0
  let extraPoint = 1
  let finalScore = gamePoint + extraPoint
  player.say(finalScore)
```
## Step 5

Comparison operations include checking if one integer is **equal to** (==), **greater than** (>), **less than** (<), **greater than or equal to** (>=), or **less than or equal to** (<=) another integer. 
In JavaScript you can use comparison operators to perform these operations.  Run the code below to see an example. (Note:  The code uses a simple If statement to compare variables.  You will learn more about If statements in the next lesson.)

```template
    let gameAge =  13
    let playerAge =  14
    if  (playerAge >= gameAge)  {
	    player.say("You can play")
	    }
```

## Step 6
Fill in the code to create a variable using the comparison operators of equal to, greater than, and less than that compares the scores of player1 (score of 7) and player2 (score of 5).  Have the player say the comparison operations using true or false statements.
```template
    let = 
    let = 
    if () {
	    player.say()
	    }
```
## Step 7

Continue to the next NPC to continue learning about variables. 